Matthew Watts
Monday 15th March 1999


Hotspots Analysis Methods using the C-Plan minset functionality
---------------------------------------------------------------


The following analysis are required:

- 3 databases (as provided by Bob Pressey)
     1) Northern Territory
     2) New South Wales
          contains 110 features
     3) South Africa
          contains 16 features

- 6 variables (as defined by Bob Pressey and Simon Ferrier)
     1) Irreplaceability
     2) Summed Irreplaceability
     3) Weighted Average Irreplaceability
          NOTE : All features in all 3 databases are mutually exclusive
                 for the calculation of this index.
                 (ie. PCCONTRCutOff = number of features)
          ALSO NOTE : For calculation of irreplaceability, feature area
                      at sites is trimmed to contributing feature area at
                      sites.
     4) Maximum Rarity
     5) Richness
     6) Summed Rarity
              
- 2 variations on complementarity 
     1) Complementarity
          Meaning all variables are recalculated after each site is
          selected.
          (The meaning is the same for all 6 variables)
     2) No Complementarity
          Meaning varies according to which variable is in use.

          For Irr, SumIrr, WavIrr calculate the values once then
          don't recalculate them at all during iterations. 

          For MaxRar, Rich, SumRar calculate values up front, then
          recalculate values when 1 or more features destroyed.
          ie. don't recalculate values at all if destruction not
          used, don't recalculate values when 1 or more features
          satisfied.

- 4 variations on vulnerability
     1) no vulnerability component
          The variable in use is used with no modification.

     2) normalise with maximum vulnerability
          Means variable is combined with vulnerability in the
          following way.
          Max Vuln is the maximum vulnerability of any feature in
          a site.
          Max Vuln and the variable in use are then each normalised
          (mapped to)
          between 0 and 1 and the two normalised values are added.

     3) normalise with weighted average vulnerability
          Wav Vuln for each available site is defined as :

                    sum for each feature of (carea * vuln)
          WavVuln = --------------------------------------
                       sum for each feature of carea

          Where carea is 'contributing area' and 
          vuln is 'vulnerability'. 

          Wav Vuln and the variable in use are then each normalised
          (mapped to)
          between 0 and 1 and the two normalised values are added.

     4) restrict to maximum 50% vulnerability
          The Max Vuln values are determined for available sites as
          defined in 2) above.  The top 50% of these values are then
          analysed
          according to the variable in use. ie. The bottom 50% of
          these
          values are not analysed according to the variable in use.

- 2 variations on destruction  ??? Bob, is this correct?
     1) destruction on
          *** Need to determine for each of the 3 datasets,
          how many sites to select for each cycle of destruction
          (ie. the reservation rate for each dataset).
          DESTRATE in the feature summary table is specified as the
          % of
          each feature to destroy in available sites at each
          iteration.
          See proviso for MaxRar, Rich, SumRar in
          "2) No Complementarity" above.

     2) destruction off
          No destruction of features in available sites.

This gives a total of (3 * 6 * 2 * 4 * 2) = 288 analyses.

There are some variations on these requirements :
     1) For destruction on rules Irr, SumIrr, WavIrr no runs are
        to be done with 'No Complementarity', a reduction of
        3 * 3 = 9 analyses
     2) Vulnerability runs using only the vulnerability variables
        defined as 2), 3) & 4) above .ie. use a fixed value
        (no complementarity)
        that is not combined with one of the 6 variables, an
        addition of 3 * 3 = 9 analyses
        ??? Bob, perhaps only 2) and 3) are used, as 4) seems to
        make no sense in this context.  

Total variation of 0 leaves (288 - 9 + 9) = 288 analyses.




NOTES ON DATABASES

NSW res & NSW crown used as reserved, drop NSW crown from res?  YES
Crown list cannot be destructed, add this option to C-Plan minset
destruction.
Crown list is not reserved, restructure database accordingly.
No NSW vector showing % of site reserved, so unable to check this.

South Africa matrix is year1.xls   Is this correct ?  YES

For NT and South Africa, % of site reserved vector is interpreted
as greater than 50% means site is reserved.

For NSW, % of site reserved vector is not available, use james
'NSW RES' list instead.




FURTHER JOBS FOR C-PLAN

1) Test destruction, and add code to allow recovery (reload matrix)
   after a destruction run.
2) Add option for varying how many sites to select for each cycle
   of destruction (ie. varying the reservation rate).
  DONE
3) Add capability to disable destruction on a list of specified
   sites (this will be used to exclude jameses 'NSW Crown' list
   from destruction when destruction is used on this dataset)
  DONE
4) Add 'no complementarity' option for MaxRar, Rich, SumRar to be
   recalculated when 1 or more features has been completely
   destroyed.
   (This happens when current sum area [available area] for 1 or
    more features is reduced to zero by destruction.)
  DONE

